hey Upstream listeners this week we're
releasing a 2023 conversation between
Jacob hellberg Dilan asparuhov Christian
Garrett and Palmer Lucky from the Hill
and Valley podcast on defense Tech China
and US foreign policy the Hill and
Valley later became a yearly conference
bringing together Founders investors
lawmakers and more with the goal of
uniting Silicon Valley and Washington DC
you can find conversations from the Hill
and Valley Forum 2024 Linked In the
description featuring speakers like
Alexander Wang of scale AI Vino kosla
Alex karp of paler Lindsey Graham Cory
Booker and more please enjoy the
[Music]
episode welcome everybody to the first H
and Valley podcast this podcast is
running conversation with technology
leaders and lawmakers on American Global
technological leadership and the future
of American National Security my name is
Jacob hellberg I'm the author of the
wires of War technology and the global
struggle for power I currently serve as
commissioner on the US China economic
and Security review commission and my
podcast co-hosts are Christian Garrett
from 137 Ventures and Delan Os bruha
from Founders fund and co-founder of
varis bace Industries we're very lucky
to have Palmer lucky today the founder
of andreal join us for our very first
episode andreal is the defense
technology company last valued at $8.5
billion before founding andreal Palmer
founded Oculus VR which was acquired by
Facebook Palmer Welcome to our podcast
and it's great to have you no happy to
be here Palmer the place that I think we
really wanted to start uh you know today
was the sort of purpose of the hill and
the valley you know sort of forum in
this podcast is to basically show both
how Silicon Valley and the hill are
starting to move closer together and
actually on both sides you know in some
ways there's been a lot of progress over
the last like five seven 10 years uh but
you know there wasn't as much progress
let's say 5 seven years ago when you
guys you know were starting andal and so
I think it'd be interesting to start
this conversation with like the Silicon
Valley you know side of it and that you
know as far as I'm aware there are still
certain you know tier one investors that
in their LPA effectively list like you
know gambling porn and then defense as
the three things that they're you know
not necessarily allowed to touch and so
I'd love to hear some stories from like
the early days of andall around how you
were very much not the current thing and
then especially so how you've seen that
you know sort of shift over the last
like five years years and obviously you
don't have to name names but you know
investors that previously like you know
literally were maybe not even allowed to
invest things like andal versus now you
know might be actually you know
significant investors love to hear how
that shifted over time and how silcon
Valley is getting closer to being
comfortable with defense well we
definitely weren't the current thing in
a few ways one we were a defense company
two we were an AI company and I don't
want to make it sound like AI was not
you know cool to some degree six plus
years ago but it was nothing like it is
today and so people often look at our
compan through the lens of what's
currently hot and imagine that we must
have just had a really easy time the
reality was that AI was definitely still
in kind of the like early crypto or
early VR era level of recognition where
there were some smart investors who
understood it was going to be big but
nobody knew when nobody knew how and it
was definitely seen as kind of this
long-term out there bet not a immediate
near-term let's make outside of of
course you know kind of dumb AI like you
uh like self-driving cars and you know
kind of like these almost like hot High
automation levels of AI as opposed to
anything that we would consider AI in in
the broader sphere um but uh but but
you're right back then defense was not
popular there was this really popular
idea among the elites that war was
obsolete that there wasn't going to be
any more large scale conflict and so
that spending your time building weapons
was either uh a waste of time at best
because it's irrelevant or actually uh
uh bringing about these dark prophecies
you know kind of increasing in the odds
of there being conflict which of course
there would not be otherwise uh and
there and therefore actually you know a
real real real path to Dooms Day um that
was kind of the worst case and in fact
there were people who uh who quit uh
their jobs at Facebook and after they
bought Oculus after they fired me in
protest of the way I was treated who
then uh never stopped talking to me
after I started working in the defense
space so it's this very interesting
Dynamic where even the people who are
inclined to really really uh you know
like you personally uh will halten have
very strong opinions on this that I I
thought were not realistic I saw great
Powers Rising I saw more and a more and
more unipolar world where you don't have
just one power the US kind of dictating
the dictating the terms and uh it was it
was clear that we needed to have good
people working on weapons technology
there was no moral High Ground in
seeding this to raon or loat or north
grm or these companies that have been
around for decades or or or a century
plus now the good news is uh I I'd say
over the last year a lot of things have
changed that have brought us tech
companies closer to the US U you know US
military apparatus like let's just
rewind back in time I there's there's
the Google protests that everybody talks
about but you know also Google bought
Boston Dynamics killed all of their
defense work uh most big tech companies
wouldn't work with the military if only
because they were trying to get into
China uh either because they were
manufact in there or because they wanted
to get into China as a market and at the
time China was kind of leading people
along making these tech companies think
that they were going to get into China
um and there were a lot of Executives
who made really big noise about how they
were going to get into China if you if
you recall and it's just important to
look back in time because that's not how
things are today um but you know I
realized that was a really bad situation
you know imagine if pre-World War II if
our most Innovative tech companies had
refused to work with DOD like Bell Labs
Westinghouse General Electric what if
they' said you know we think Imperial
Japan is just a huge Revenue opportunity
for our investors and so we can't really
take sides in this you know Cold War you
can imagine if things things had gone
that way we would have lost for certain
um the the the good news about what's
happening today is uh there are two big
things that are pushing people closer to
military applications I think maybe
three even maybe even three uh one of
them is purely economic uh a lot of
other parts of the consumer industry are
consumer Industries are collapsing and
that means that people don't have the
luxury of luxury beliefs they can't you
know just say oh well you know I'm going
to work on just this wonderful world
changing thing without regard for uh
where where where the where the market
says the need is and right now the
market agrees that there is Need for new
defense technology so that's one thing
probably the more important ones though
are uh one the war in Ukraine or I guess
the invasion of Ukraine the war has been
going on for a decade but Russia
invading Ukraine I think made people
realize oh you real power you know large
scale viol industrial Warfare is still
alive and well they recognize that
that's going to happen most likely with
China and Taiwan and there's other
Rising Powers uh that they want to get
into a similar situation and then the
other big one which is actually where I
think China uh miscalculated and we can
count our blessings on this uh China
finally made clear that they are not
going to let us tech companies come in
and dominate their tech industry they
strung us along for the better part of a
decade more if if you if you count what
they've done in the kind of the non
social media uh areas of Technology kind
of hard technology um but it's become
very clear that not only are they not
going to allow us tech companies into
their Market they're going to come and
they're going to eat our lunch in our
markets and so I think that was really
that was really the kick in the pants
that made everyone realize they'd been
had they' been taken for a ride and that
they needed to they needed to pick sides
is that the right reason to come to that
conclusion not really but yeah I'll take
I'll take what I can get hey you talked
about this you know shift let's say
amongst like the investors and the
elites are you guys seeing that also in
terms of like the like raw talent that's
applying to you guys like you mentioned
hey you had some like Engineers that
work for you back from Oculus but we're
not fans necessarily of you EO working
on andal have you seen a shift within
like the broader employee base that's
interested in you guys yeah I think that
I mean in my kind of personal Network I
think everyone who stopped talking to me
is talking again like the the again it's
the the the invasion of of of of Ukraine
by Russia was kind of you know real real
I told you so
um so there's that but then on the
investor side of course I mean there
were there were a ton of people who you
mentioned people who chose Charters and
their firms said they could not invest
in defense and I would actually even
give those credit a little bit of credit
for being forward-looking in realizing
that that might be something they would
look at otherwise there were other
people where it's not in their Charter
there was no real there was nothing
preventing them from even doing it you
can't kind of blame it on the paperwork
oh you know the paperwork won't let us
is an easy excuse our LPS made us sign
the paperwork um but there were a lot of
people who could have invested and still
they they kind of had this idea like man
why are you doing this you're wasting
your time or you're bringing about the
apocalypse one or the other um and
that's that's of course very much very
much changed I think that's why you've
seen and from being this kind of true
outlier to all of a sudden one of a
couple dozen really promising new
defense companies with very broad
support from basically every VC firm
that matters and you you you said I
didn't need to mention names but like
there's there's one particular VC who
was uh there was there was one
particular VC who was specifically uh
focused on investing in government
technology and they have a headquarters
in Washington DC and they were they were
Ultra anti- anderol even in public like
on Twitter saying this is such a this is
such a terrible company uh it none of
none of their Tech even works it's
absolutely ridiculous we should be
investing in government technology but
not we should be investing in things
that save people like cancer treatment
not things that kill people like Palmer
lucky U and it was like it it they've
now deleted all of those tweets and shut
up and now they've also invested in all
of the other new defense companies so
like look it's not the right it's not
the right reason but like I said I'll
take what I can get UMTS probably gave
them a ring after that exactly yeah it's
it's possible um but you know this was
also pre this was pre pre- Russia
invasions so it was it was a little bit
of a different world so I I don't I I
don't even really want to name names and
beat people over the head if they've
come over to the light uh you know I'll
focus on I'll focus on the people who
are still kind of uh because there are
still Venture capitalists by the way who
are hugely influenced by Chinese money
uh and so that's and some of them have
huge investments in Chinese companies
and so they really are they're they're
actually probably I'd say VCS at this
point are more compromised than the US
tech industry by our strategic adversary
which is which is unfortunate because
that's that's where the future comes
from as far as our hiring pool it has
really opened up the doors there's a lot
of but before I would say we could only
get kind of the contrarian types um and
you know like you guys probably know
it's like the people who fit fit the you
know contrary and investor mold where
that you know they're at Stanford and
everyone throws vegetables at them and
you know they Pro prior PRI writing for
the Stanford review and uh and then they
come to work in anal now it's actually
become a very very mainstream thing and
of course we got to be careful to not
let that dilute our our internal culture
but at the same time it's nice that I
know I call them the kids that you the
children the the ones who are freshly
graduated from college they there's a
lot of them who feel like they can work
in a defense company and tell people
about it and have people be proud of
them and that's what people want right
they want people to like them they want
them to respect them and uh and it was
hard to find people who are kind of
willing to give up the respect of their
peers to work on something important
it's a lot easier to find someone who
believes they will get the respect of
their peers and actually I just saw the
something that last night for the first
time now that I'll wrap up this bit on
uh I saw a an autonomous drone company
that's doing food delivery and uh it
they they announced that they their new
round of fundraising and it said you
know I I won't name what company it is
because I don't want I don't want I
don't want people to want people to go
after after them just in just in case
but uh said the the co-founders are come
from
from Apple and Uber and andril
industries I was like oh that's so cool
we're finally like a real enough company
that that new companies are like oh yeah
I'm from andero like that that's a thing
I'm going to Market we I came from that
place and we don't have that many people
leaving honestly because we've been a
rocket ship for for a while um but the
handful of people that were leaving I'll
tell you like a year or two ago the
people who left were not going into
their next jobs and saying and I come
from and Industries and we're going to
put that on our website and Market it so
that's really the the mark of being the
current thing is when uh is when people
put you in the same breath as as apple
and Uber as a as a as a
Bonafide yeah it's got to feel good to
go from yeah contrary to consensus um to
maybe to like flip to the other side of
the equation let's say Obviously you
we've talked about how I think Silicon
Valley has moved you know a lot closer
to being comfortable with defense but
it' be inter I think talk about like the
flip side of the equation right you know
15 years ago had companies like you know
SpaceX to sue the Air Force to convince
them to actually utilize the falcon9
relative to you know sort other on the
market rockets by you know increased
capabilities cheaper prices y obviously
your co-founder Trey Stevens and paler
they went through a similar experience
to sue the US government versus you know
now you have these like dedicated
programs like you know F Works Space
Works Etc that're explicitly for
engaging with you know Tech stups V
obviously recently getting that sort of
like stratify like contract can you talk
a bit about how you've seen that sort of
like shift within you know the dod where
do you think we are at in that time
frame how does the dod get even better
at adopting these types of you know
Technologies and how does that even in
particular it'd be great to also get
your sense of like with the timeliness
of this conversation happening while you
know China is doing these live Maneuvers
around Taiwan how do you think that that
will start to impact the you sort of
China Taiwan situation the China Taiwan
stuff is interesting and you have seen
that China announced that they are going
to start doing uh doing inspections of
of cargo vessels inbound for Taiwan
which leads into my long-standing theory
that they're going to enact their
Invasion first with a trade blockade and
say oh violating Chinese tax or import
laws and therefore we're going to
blockade Imports in in in the harbor and
with my my theory is that the US will
not be willing to start a shooting War
over what appears to be you know a
non-shooting trade blockade um it's it's
actually very interesting it's a little
bit like the plot of uh of Star Wars
episode one you know you got the trade
blockade you got the internal people in
Taiwan who want to make it happen if
only to get more sympathy and more power
for their cause in the international
scene you it's actually a very lot of
interesting lot of interesting parallels
there um but uh sorry what what was the
question before that I I got so
distracted yeah no problem yeah sorry we
should have distracted China Taiwan
thing given that that's so timely but
more on the like DOD side of things no
that's right so right I I mean what what
what the the truth is the Department of
Defense has been a terrible customer for
decades they had centralized on a few
big players it was very centrally
planned there were only a few people who
are allowed to win the prime position on
major contracts and I I don't mean
allowed legally I just mean practically
speaking they were not going to allow
any new entrance to prime it just was
not going to happen the incentives were
set up wrong the structures were set up
wrong the the bureaucrats were afraid
they would get fired if they did
anything that was outside of the norm
even if it was inside of the law uh
paler and SpaceX were the ones who
really broke the dam there they you know
they they they had to sue their largest
customer that uh their largest customers
and say Hey you have to award us this
contract because it's a product we've
already built using our own money the
law says you cannot pay company billions
of dollars to redevelop something that
we've already made that you can buy more
cheaply in the first place and uh that
that that hadn't really been tested in
in Modern Times And the fact that they
both won was really what opened the door
for andrel and everyone else who's
followed in our footsteps because
without them proving that there was a
high likelihood we would invest our own
money build things prove that they're
possible and then the government just
gives a contract to another company to
build the same thing but worse or the
same thing but slower or the same thing
but more expensive and or all of those
things combined and the the fact that
they made clear no no we there are
mechanisms by which we can hold you to
account uh you and hold you to the law
and force you to buy the right thing you
know it was basically legal enforcement
of meritocracy which is so often thought
to be dead but uh C can be enforced when
you're working with the government you
can't enforce meritocracy in Tech by the
way there's an there's an interesting D
Dynamics where you see the wrong is
winning you know major SAS contracts or
support contracts because they're well
connected or because they're politically
aligned with the leadership of a company
uh but the government can't afford to
make decisions like that anymore because
they need to pick the best stuff and
abide by the law so that that that was
that was that was a really big big deal
for us I don't think we would have we
would have started oll otherwise and the
other flip side of this is in addition
to kind of what andreal paler did which
was forcing the government to do the
right thing in a time where it was not
cool to do that since then it's become
easier where the Zeitgeist is on our
side people in government agree we need
to change how Contracting is done they
agree the system is broken nobody thinks
that things are going well nobody in
Congress nobody in the Pentagon maybe
not nobody very few people certainly and
that that that's very helpful to us
because it means we're going in where
like the the way we're doing things is
is is radical and new uh but we're not
having to go in and convincing them that
their way is wrong they know their way
is wrong they're open to kind of radical
new rad radical new Concepts and how
things are procured and developed on
very rapid
timelines hey we'll continue our
interview in a moment after a word from
our sponsors hey listeners it's Eric if
you're looking for more expert level
conversations but specifically about top
negotiation strategies then I have the
perfect podcast recommendation for you
deal craft insights from great
negotiators hosted by Jim sabanus
Harvard Business School professor and
renowned negotiation expert deal craft
features interviews with the world's
greatest dealmakers and diplomats from
former Secretary of State Henry
Kissinger to Blackstone Steve schwarzman
on their most challenging negotiations
from which Jim draws lessons for
listeners not to mention that the
guardian recently called deal craft a
best podcast pick new episodes release
weekly and I'd recommend starting with
their first episode which reveals how
legendary entertainment attorney John
brona was able to successfully negotiate
for Michael Jackson's ownership of his
master recordings and the Beatles
catalog almost unprecedented Feats of
the time so don't miss out follow deal
craft insights from great negotiators on
Apple podcasts Spotify or wherever you
get your podcasts venture capital is
widely seen as one of the most lucrative
asset classes in the world go look at
the S&P 500 nearly every major tech
company on that list was once funded by
Venture Capital firms producing billions
of dollars in profit in the process the
hard truth however is that the biggest
Venture funds are almost entirely funded
by institutional investors like
endowments and Sovereign wealth funds so
unless you knew a guy who knew a guy you
and 99.9% of individual investors did
not get to partic participate in the
pre-ipo growth of any of those blue chip
companies and it's happening again look
at the biggest names in AI for instance
almost all of them are still private
just Out Of Reach of your portfolio The
fundrise Innovation fund is finally
changing that it's a more than $125
million fund it holds some of the most
exciting pre-ipo tech companies in the
world and it's designed specifically for
individual investors this time you can
get an early at fundrise.com
Upstream carefully consider the
investment material before investing
including objectives risks charges and
expenses this and other information can
be found in the Innovation funds
prospectus at fundrise.com
Innovation this is a paid
[Music]
advertisement and then you know beyond
just the fact that obviously you know it
opened up the like Avenue for
meritocracy which it really allowed for
andril do you think that there are like
you know sort of immediate ships you'd
want to see over the course of the next
one two three years Beyond just that
meritocratic you know let's say
Contracting process that you think set
us up well for let's say future
situations like the you know sort of us
you know China Taiwan situation oh I
mean there's so many things I mean the
most relevant there is export reform we
need like what we have we have this
weird bizarre system where uh military
systems are controlled extremely tightly
to the point where we don't want to
export even to people that we've already
given far more powerful weapon systems
but then at the same time not only do we
allow commercial companies to export
technologies that are actually more
strategically sensitive think on
artificial intelligence Sensor Fusion um
you know various kinds of algorithms
materials composits as as long as a
company doesn't work on Military sides
of those things then all of a sudden
it's as it's as if it is not of military
relevance and they're able to export it
so you see this all the time American
tech companies and I this is not like I
don't think they're doing this to be
treasonous it's just incidentally
treasonous is they're they're basically
have they have a profit motive to export
these Technologies to China uh and and
even worse the because you know they're
not competing in the Strategic sphere
they're competing in the consumer sphere
so if they can build something in China
cheaper and better then they're going to
export that technology and do so but
it's actually worse than that the US
government actually requires our
consumer and Enterprise tech companies
to disclose their most sensitive
techniques because that's what you have
to do to get a patent in the United
States I I've always called patents
Chinese instruction manuals you're just
you're just basically saying hey if you
want in the west and if you want your
Tech to be protected here in the west if
you want to make money we are going to
force you to publicly disclose your most
sensitive valuable intellectual property
for a strategic adversary to steal and
use for military purposes it just it
just nuts to me now people who are
listening who very familiar with the
system might point out but Palmer
there's a process by which you can gain
classified patents that's true but those
are again only generally applicable to
Pure military technology it's very hard
for a company that because of course
it's kind of against the idea of the
patent system where you want to publicly
disclose these things you get your
chance your shot at at commercializing
it but everyone else gets to learn from
it um classifi Pats are very hard to get
if you are not working on a specific
military program that's already
classified one of the things I think our
government should do and this doesn't
really help andal make money but it
helps us beat China we need to make it
much easier and maybe even much more
required to get classified patents or at
least sensitive patents where you get a
patent and it is available to us
companies and us people to access and
they can learn from it but there is some
amount of information control on that
you can't just have a Chinese University
siphon down all 6,000 Apple patents
every year and go through them and copy
all of the best things that apple is
forced to protect like that should not
be possible let's at least make them
work for it right you know people say oh
we're going to get Intelligence Officers
and they're going to do it okay let
let's make them work for it you we don't
we don't need any one person to have
access to tens of thousands of patents
in course of one afternoon that they can
then scrape through um another thing
that the US could do is you know
meritocracy is great I think that
another thing they could do is recompete
a lot of these programs more often
there's no reason to recompete a missile
program every 10 or every 20 years when
there's continuous innovation in the
sector I would like to see them say you
know what the Hellfire missile is not a
program it's a standard and we are going
to release those standards to anyone who
wants them and we're going to allow a
full recompete for every new batch of
missiles every 18 or maybe 24 months and
the who who's the maker of the Hellfire
missile well hopefully it's changing
every 18 months hopefully there's
continuous competition and Innovation
where people are saying hey I've put in
a different type of solid rocket motor I
put in a different type of Seeker I've
figured out a new composite body that's
cheaper and lighter and you know things
like that now people will say but Palmer
it's so expensive to certify a new
rocket motor or a new Warhead look I
agree and it would be great if the
government figured out how to make it
cheaper to certify those things but
let's start by at least allowing you to
compete if you're willing to spend all
the money to certify those things like I
would be willing to I have the money to
do it there's like three other Venture
backed companies that could afford to do
it it's not it's not going to be a pure
meritocracy you're not going to have the
Palmer lucky of 2012 19 years old
sitting in his camper trailer building
Oculus instead building a certified
missile but there's plenty of companies
that could compete if they would just
change the timelines they do these on
and the last thing they should do is
more merit-based competitions like don't
don't I I think that these compet should
be less prescriptive and more
descriptive of the result they should
say hey here's what we need the weapon
system to do here's the target needs to
hit here's the effect it needs to have
rather than saying it's going to be a
missile it's 31 millim in diameter the
rocket motor will weigh 450 gram the
Warhead will be 2.1 kgr that that that
is a bad way to to get competition you
should instead say here's what we're
trying to do here's the effect we're
trying to get and let people come at it
from totally different angles we often
say internally that our customers always
know what their problems are they never
know what the solution
is wber you know you mentioned a few key
points there for some changes you like
to see come out of the hill in the dod
um and you know even on the earlier
point on how you're seeing more
companies not just the investor race but
more companies actually think about
selling to the government whether
they're a traditional enterprise
software business following the steps of
a Snow Lake or scale AI or whether
they're trying to follow the SpaceX
paler andal model and are uh new defense
uh contractor um what does that motion
look like like can you detail sort of
what does selling the government look
like for andreil and then what does it
look like for you when you're sort of
trying to lobby for some of these
changes you want to see from the hill I
think both sides for whether it's a new
entant or someone that's you know adding
a new business line sell on the
government many people don't know where
to start right so what does look like
whether it's on the government what does
it look like to lobby for these changes
you want to see well the first thing I
would say is there's totally different
processes for selling to the government
if you're coming to the government
incidentally versus your entire goal is
to come in and build an XG defense Prime
so like let's talk about the more
traditional way typically a company
builds around some technology that
someone comes up with they invent it or
they come up with it when they're in
school they develop it it turns into a
company they they they hire people to
work on it on that on that technology
and then they look for applications of
that technology and that's actually how
most of these smaller companies get into
defense it's they have something else
that they made for the broader market
and then they say oh how can I apply
this to defense how can I apply my laser
company to defense what what problems
does the dod have where lasers could be
some part of it uh or you know what part
of the dod could my could my data flow
management software be be applicable to
the problems that they have and I I
don't have a I don't have a beef with
people doing this they should do it but
their lobbying strategy is going to be
uh very different in that they're going
to need to basically doing a marketing
campaign in addition to doing a lobbying
campaign for why the government should
even care about the problem that they're
solving as a priority because it's so
easy to just do nothing to just let the
status quo rest uh if if something is
not a priority now contrast that with
andil when we started andril we did not
decide we're going to do an AI defense
company we said we are going to do the
next defense Prime and then we we sat
down the first day literally not knowing
what products we were going to build and
that's that that's a very different
angle right it's not we didn't build it
off a particular piece of tech we'd
already made it was just what would we
do from first principles from step one
if our intent is to build the defense
company that is going to dominate the
industry a 100 years from now if writing
science fiction that talks about a
defense company that dominates in the
year 2100 in CIS lunar defense you know
where would they have started and the
answer is you know right artificial
intelligence autonomy Sensor Fusion you
know virtual reality and augmented
reality not the not they certainly
wouldn't just started started as let's
say a man fighter company like lock did
it would be a very different origin
story and so for us what we've done is
started for the perspective of saying
where what are the things that the
defense primes are doing very poorly
that the government in like the Pentagon
believes are a top strategic importance
and that people in Congress who
basically decide what gets funded what
do they agree is important because if
you have something that the Pentagon
thinks is important but Congress doesn't
agree or vice versa very hard to make it
go anywhere if Ron's already doing a
great job on a system probably also not
something you should in fact if they're
doing an even okay job you probably
shouldn't so it needs to be something
that we can do well that everyone else
is doing poorly that is very important
to the military that's also a strategic
priority to Congress and if you do that
your lobbying job becomes a lot easier
because you're not trying to convince
people that it is a problem you're
trying to convince them merely that you
are the best solution and that I I much
prefer to have lobbying limited to that
as a like I know a company that's
building building a uh a a device that
uh helps mitigate heat exhaustion and
soldiers and I won't get into exactly
how because it's because it's novel and
I don't want to give away their secrets
but um the advice that I gave to them
was look you're going to have to
convince them that they should even care
about heat exhaustion yes it is a real
problem that we actually have a lot of
people more people injured due to heat
exhaustion than getting shot but you
have like this is not a strategic
National priority you're GNA have to
convince Congress that it's important
then you have to convince Pentagon that
it's important and then you have to
convince them that you're the best
solution even as they if they're
convinced they'll go to everyone else
and ask them for their take on it so uh
I I would say andral's made our lobbying
job a lot easier by limiting our
lobbying to kind of the the show and
tell portion of look we're not coming up
with money and we're not coming with a
white paper and asking for money to make
this real and convincing you that this
is a problem we're saying we we know you
have this problem we know it keeps you
up at night here's the thing that solves
it we've literally already built it and
by the way nobody can possibly do better
uh and that that's made our lobbying job
lobbying life a lot easier you just got
to get in front of people rather than
worry that you're not going to convince
them I think it's really helpful because
a lot of times you have conversations
with Founders and uh one of the things
that's interesting for folks to kind of
understand is the lobbying effort is not
just uh dependent on scale so you have
dollars to kind of throw at these things
um or a product that's obviously capable
um but it's also uh very much dependent
on timing right and so a lot 100% I mean
if I had started andall 10 years ago I'd
be working on totally different problems
not because I necessarily disagree with
not necessarily because I would agree
with those priorities but like I'm a
practical guy my job is to start the
nextg defense Prime I cannot make it my
business to also convince the dod to
think my way on every strategic priority
like so to some yeah you're right it's a
timing thing you need to sell the things
that they want in the time that you are
selling to them and so you me you talked
a little bit about competition with
China as being the subex for so much of
what goes on in the defense tech
industry and Export control and the need
to align with priorities that both
Congress and the dod has there's a big
debate right now going on in Washington
with what should we do with Chinese
Technologies in the US in all of its
forms obviously a few years ago ago the
US government took actions to ban uh
Hardware Technologies like Huawei and
ZTE and now we're in the middle of a
debate about what we should do with
software Technologies like Tik Tok but
yep four out of the 10 out of the top 10
most downloaded apps on the App Store in
the US are all Chinese so it kind of
raises this bigger question where I'm
curious where do you fall in that debate
I know that andrel has obviously spent a
lot of time thinking about ways of
securing your systems and Supply chains
so you know um you guys have spend a lot
of thinking about the safety of foreign
Technologies in your systems and so what
is your general philosophy on that
debate and do you think that the US
government should ban Tik Tok do you
think we should ban Chinese software
apps in general all of Chinese
Technologies in general what's your take
okay so a few things you know obviously
I'm a I'm a little L libertarian so I'm
generally generally anti-government
intervention in general but i' I've but
but but of course like most Libertarians
I uh I'm I'm compromised in my beliefs
um and I I so I'd say there's two sides
this one is the anal side you know how
do we protect ourselves there's
protecting yourselves on the software
side uh and then there's also protecting
yourselves on the kind of hardware and
Manufacturing dependent side and
unfortunately for both of those there
are government standards for protecting
yourself in terms of you know making
sure things are not dependent on Supply
Chinese supply chain Chinese materials
Chinese components um and then there's
the reality of actually not being
dependent so it's actually much easier
to say that you are off of China and
meet the government standard for being
off of China that it is to truly be off
of China and by really off of China I
mean if China were to invade Taiwan and
the West were to sanction them and block
all exports from China would you really
be able to keep operating and there's a
lot of companies where they say oh
legally we meet the government
requirements for not being Chinese
nonetheless you know sanctions of that
kind would destroy their company
instantly and so we're trying to really
push beyond what we're required to do
and go all the way to the end of you
know really not being dependent on the
on on on the Chinese economy for you
either on the hardware or the software
side um as far as Tik Tok I personally
this are my personal beliefs that I'm
not advocating for anything I personally
believe that Tik Tok and many of these
other Chinese apps are huge National
Security threats even if they're not
working directly with the CCP now you
mentioned four of the top 10 apps are
Chinese well those are the ones that are
consistently in the top 10 there's been
a variety of apps over the last year
where they kind of are flash in the pans
where you know like there's been photo
filter apps and video editing apps where
they basically have a a flash in the pan
they get really big everyone downloads
them they get millions of downloads and
then it falls off of the charts but a
lot of those people still have apps on
their phone and it's come out that many
of these companies are more or less
spyware companies I don't think they're
working with the CCP necessarily but
they're basically getting on your phone
to get dumb people to allow permissions
to do things that they don't understand
and now they're able to get data and
sell data and and do really interesting
things and that's without even getting
into potential uh vectors that use that
application install as a vector for an
injection of code that does new things
that you don't expect and so I I I think
it's not just about Tik Tock Tik Tok is
actually probably the easier one to
control just because there's so much
Focus that it's very risky for them to
get away with very much because there's
so much attention on it but I wonder I
worry a lot about some of these other
lower profile apps that nonetheless are
on the devices of tens of millions if
not hundreds of millions of Americans in
aggregate so I think it's obviously a
national security threat but here's what
I would actually advocate for we don't
even need to talk about the National
Security angle because the economic
angle is so much more clear-cut why
would we allow Chinese companies to come
to the United States and sell Us ads and
sell us uh and sell us uh social media
tools when they prohibit us from doing
the same in their markets and people say
oh well that's just a censorship problem
it's because you don't meet their
censorship laws well first of all we
don't let many people into the World
Trade Organization that uh you that say
oh well no we just have such
extraordinary censorship laws that we
ban all of your products like that's not
how free trade works but even if you
give them that they also require you to
be in a 51% Chinese owned joint venture
in order to even operate in China with a
hand and they can't even claim that
they're ideologically pure on that
because they've given exemptions to
Apple and Tesla so they they clearly
have the ability politically and legally
to let us companies compete in China
even even within their laws but
economically they choose not to and the
US has done a really good job of playing
hard ball over the last few decades in
basically every other space so
agricultural Commodities uh industrial
Commodities like steel and aluminum
certainly cars cars are the everpresent
trade War you know we're negotiating
over pennies in trade deals with Canada
with China with Japan why do we then
allow a much higher profit much larger
industry to operate with impunity with
regards to the US I think this is a case
where the government just fell behind
because it's easy for a congress person
to understand when China is selling a
subsidized steel and it's hard for them
to understand when they are uh selling
us subsidized social media products and
so I'd say on Purely economic grounds we
should just say hey you want free trade
it needs to be free trade you want to
sell Tik Tok here you need to let us
sell you Google and Facebook and all
these other tools oh you don't like what
that does to your censorship regimes
well that's too bad if you want access
to the global markets that's what you're
going to do but everyone in the US in
the EU is so afraid of pissing off all
the Gen Z Tik Tock kids that they refuse
to do this which is uh I I think I think
actually not a not a good situation to
be in so Al it is national security
threat but we should ban it because it's
an economic travesty it's a mockery of
our free trade principles Pew research
came out with a poll that showed that
actually um there's a margin of two to
one of people in the US that now support
a b of Tik Tok so you might start to see
Congress response to that I hope so of
course you know the I I like I said I
think they're looking to kind of this
this genz and Millennial side as as more
important which I actually also think is
a this is SE separate from what's good
from the country I think it's political
suicide for the Democrats to be doing
this like you you've seen you've seen
the Democrats in my opinion go from
being more the party of the working
class the labor um to being seen
certainly as the party of the elites and
the party of the young hyper socially
aware college kids and for some reason
they just keep moving in that direction
with their branding and now you can
argue but Palmer they do things for
unions they do this for that yeah but
you know perception is reality then the
the the marketing they put forward is
certainly very aligned with this kind of
actually ideological minority and so I
worry they're like oh man well the
geners they say that Manning Tik Tok is
racist and so we can't look racist so we
we we got to keep Banning we we got to
keep Banning Chinese subsidized steal
but we got to allow Tik Tock and that I
mean that's that that's not a that's not
a great thing yeah it's two to one now
maybe we'll get maybe we'll get 3 to one
four to one soon um what I've heard from
people when when I talk to people who
don't want Tech Tok band they saying oh
man but there's all these great creators
and all these great communities and my
answer to them is what we should
actually do is if Tik Tok is banned
everyone will move to another platform
whether it's a new one or an existing
one like the US creators are not going
to succeed or you disappear and so I
think we actually need to there's been
kind of this push I think there's a lot
of people who are like oh man I can't
wait for Tik Tok to disappear because I
hate all those people on Tik Tok too uh
I I feel like people who are in that
camp need to be more strategic in their
in their marketing and say hey kids
don't worry you're going to keep your
stupid Tik Tok influencers they're just
going to be on Facebook reals or on
Instagram or hey maybe maybe elon's GNA
bring back Vine that's what I want I
want El to bring back Vine and then
everyone comes back to vine the day that
Tik Tok is banned Instagram will offer
you plenty of videos of people sniffing
glue and doing all exactly it'll it
it'll allow all of these things uh you
know minus the Chinese propaganda and uh
and you know the things that are
intended to rot our H's brains all right
so we're in favor of a band on Tik Tok
love it so we're we're four out of four
here right yeah yeah that's right look
at this we're we're we're in such an
ideological bubble a real
monoculture we'll continue our interview
in a moment after a word from our
sponsors
have you heard of this alternative
investing company
alt.co the idea behind it is simple
there are a million syndicates out there
that co-invest in startups or real
estate but what about alternative
Investments where do you go if you want
to invest in say Hollywood film
financing deals or a dozen barrels of
tequila or pro sports teams there's a
world of alternative Investments out
there and boy these guys are all over it
their Community altaa is a place for
forward-thinking investors to invest in
unique vetted deals meet captivating
people and enjoy once in a lifetime
travel experiences apply to join altaa
who knows where things might lead travel
meet unique people invest in asset
classes that are a bit out of your usual
Lan this is what altaa gives you unique
slightly uncomfortable but incredibly
rewarding experiences which not only
help your portfolio but stretch your
mind and allow you to see the world
differently check these guys out at
alt.co Upstream that's alt.co Upstream
alt.co Upstream
[Music]
hey everyone Eric here in this
environment Founders need to become
profitable faster and do more with
smaller teams especially when it comes
to
engineering that's why Sean Lenahan
started Squad A specialized Global
Talent firm for top Engineers that will
seamlessly integrate with your
org Squad offers rigorously vetted top
1% talent that will actually work hard
for you every day their Engineers work
in your time zone follow your processes
and use your tools squad has front-end
Engineers excelling in types scrip and
react and nextjs ready to onboard to
your team today for backend Squad
Engineers are experts at nodejs python
Java and a range of other languages and
Frameworks while it may cost more than
the freelancer on upwork billing you for
40 hours but working only two Squad
offers premium quality at a fraction of
the typical cost without the headache of
assessing for skills and culture fit
Squad takes care of sourcing legal
compliance and local HR for Global
Talent increase your velocity without
amping up burn visit chw squad.com and
mentioned turpentine to skip the wait
list yeah uh well you know it's actually
reflective of the US Congress it seems
like if you saw the hearing I mean it
seemed like the same margin you know
basically grilled the CEO and you know
we'll see if the Congress ends up moving
on it but it seems like now they're
negotiating the outcome of the bill
we'll see I I wish they could just focus
on Tik Tok instead of this kind of oh
well this is really an opportunity for
us to also heavily regulate us-based
companies and European companies because
really isn't us aren't US tech companies
just as bad as ccpr run tech companies
like come on like let's Sol let's solve
the real problem here yeah yeah it
doesn't make any sense I would love it
if Congress had to had to make their
bills about one problem at a time that's
a a recurring proposal people make I I
really I really love that idea I know
it's not popular with with with with
with a lot of people because it's the
way they get their pet stuff done is to
attach it to more popular things but man
I I would I would love it if we got uh
if we got one thing done for bill
because we can just ban Tik Tok and then
we can debate whether or not we should
ban US tech
companies so if you zoom out how do you
think the US should go about best
competing with China in uh this new Cold
War and do you think in your heart of
hearts that we can pull off a second
Cold War Victory I think so there's a
lot of things that we could be doing
differently a big part of this is uh
we're already starting to make some of
the steps in the right direction they're
just not big enough I mean people talk
about the chips act and how it's $50
billion and it's this one set of
generation you know incentive for
bringing high-end manufacturing to the
US but you have to remember that Apple
just one company pledged the CCP to
spend $250 billion investing in Chinese
manufacturing and education so you got
one company pledging five times as much
money to do the same thing opposed to
the US and that's a US company and we
let them do it so I I I don't want to
Pat ourselves in the back too much over
over the chips act um even if we have
high-end chips coming off of plants in
the US China is going to keep moving
forward and they might be doing it much
cheaper much better and that's
especially true if they manage to beat
us on one of the kind of Next Generation
uh semiconductor techniques like Optical
Computing uh or Quantum lithography or
what you know one of these wacky sci-fi
schemes that exists uh you know separate
from kind of the
ultraviolet lithography that's being
used on a lot of semiconductors here um
one thing that I think we could do to
compete that has not been discussed
enough is bringing back the word
Defector that this used to be a staple
of the Cold War a staple of the world of
the world wars this idea that we were
going to heavily incentivize people in
other systems that were opposed to ours
uh uh breaking out of their system
coming to the United States and helping
us fight the system that that forced
them that forced them to leave and you I
we did a great job of a great job of
this during the cold War especially we
we basically stole a lot of Russia's
best engineers and their best scientist
we brain dra their whole nation into
Oblivion and it was a very very powerful
technique people point to like the
ex-nazi scientists that we got from
Germany but that was really post-war it
wasn't a successful inar strategy really
it was it was it was a post-war strategy
that really helped us during the Space
Race So the Dynamics there are a little
different I would love us to say you
know what we're bringing back defectors
we are going to talk about about them
we're going to encourage them we are
going to say Hey you you're you're in
China and you have really strategically
valuable in you know Talent on how to
make high-end components you're a
manufacturing process engineer we're
going to make it easy for you to come to
the United States on a merit-based Visa
and you're going to get your citizenship
here because one of the things that
Chinese citizens do understand the value
of is a US passport because unlike a
Chinese passport it gets you almost
everywhere the government isn't going to
seize it from you the government isn't
going to force your family to remain in
the country while you travel AB abroad
and vice versa because they're afraid of
losing you like they they even the
people who are part of their system in a
way where they want to be understand
that they are in a precarious position
with Chinese citizenship and even
internationally and there's a lot of
people who would much prefer to get out
of China and convert to the US system
and people say oh but some you what
about intelligence oper operatives those
people are already coming over here
anyway they're already getting into our
universities they're already working in
our companies like so it at least give
them more out of it than the ability to
be here short term give them the
opportunity to become US citizens and go
all in on the American dream not just
see us as a place to come and Rob of
technology and then go back to China so
we need to bring back defectors we need
to be way more aggressive about it we
need to not only make it possible for
them to come here our themselves I think
we need to be helping extract them
because there's a lot of people in the
Chinese Tech Community that are not
allowed to leave China at the same time
as their families and I think the us can
go in and of course when I say the US I
mean of course the US is not involved
but you know but of course a lot of
planes start you know a lot of sea
Planes start landing on lakes around the
world that are that are you know flying
without any registration numbers on them
and people are getting into them and
just flying out of China by the
thousands every year until we've taken
all of the people that give them a huge
strategic Advantage because China is
very good at these things but it's
actually not a huge number of people
that keep keep everything running how do
you think ongoing efforts to sure
semiconductor Supply chains are going
and are we well positioned if Taiwan
what happens if China actually carries
out a blockade against Taiwan tomorrow
well as you probably know you know
skill-based immigration is very
politically out of favor with with a lot
of people right now I think that's
actually one of the reasons we haven't
seen Defector visas as a strategy this
in this particular great power
competition unlike in the past in the
past there was It was kind of obvious
like yeah obviously we should be taking
their best people we're going to kick
these guys and the balls we're going to
take all their best people and then
their trains aren't going to run on time
and the whole system collapses but these
days it to say we're going to allow
people to come here because they are the
most skilled most uh you know most
talented people in their in their
country it's kind of the opposite of
what's politically in vow which is to
say we must bring the people who are the
poorest least educated people because
the real point of immigration is to
rescue them from their country's
incompetence and bring them to America
where they will where they will do
better I I think we I think we cannot
save everybody in that way like you need
to have a stable International order you
want these other countries to do well
enough that their people don't want to
leave and that in fact they do better by
staying but in the meanwhile like I I
don't think we could afford to for
example say you know what we're going to
take we're going to take in 1 million
Chinese Farmers like I feel bad for
those Farmers under the rule of the CCP
but if we take a million Chinese Farmers
they're going to be just fine and
they're going to become an even larger
power probably economically surpassing
the US whereas if we take a million of
their tech people I mean that's it you
just wiped out their entire machine you
just decapitated the whole thing so I
what I've tried to convince people in
politics of is listen you need to Market
this not as merit-based immigration
broadly which you you asked about you
how how can we get more merit-based
immigration you know what would that
look like I am for merit based
immigration I suspect the only way to
win this one is to not Market it that
way you cannot Market it as we're doing
merit-based immigration because it's
good for the US it's pure red meat we're
going to kick these guys ass we're going
to steal their people we're going to
ruin their entire military and PE
everyone whether you're talking about
kind of the you know the the kind of the
elites that want certain types of
immigration or whether you're talking
about you know a blue collar union
worker in in Chicago they're gonna say
yeah let's kick their ass let's let's
steal those people it's an anti-ccp work
visa it is and I think that's another
thing about bringing back a Defector
Visa it's not like the accelerated high
high skill strategic acceleration plan
it's like no you like you need to be
like yeah these people they traitor to
their country because they hate what
China is about they hate postc communism
Revolution values and they are the brave
people who they care so much about our
way of life that they're willing to
leave everything and to to get away from
what China is today and everyone should
be okay with that even the people who
are not pro-immigration like yeah I love
that I love these immigrants who hate
other countries
and so how about chips I mean we see uh
Xi Jinping in the last two to three
weeks delivered four speeches telling
his military to prepare for war yep
obviously saw that he made an
announcement that he wanted to do
inspections of ships in the South China
Sea all signs point to a potential
preparation and effort to make some kind
of move against Taiwan what happens to
our economy in our companies if supply
chain uh Supply chains for chips get
disrupted and uh how do you you think
reshoring efforts are going I mean
making moves against Taiwan they like
you have whatever you know 40 know boats
and 80 planes flying around right now
yeah yeah I
mean I will say if that happens uh 2022
was the Palmer lucky I Told You So tour
and then uh 2024 will be the will be the
the the pmer lucky I told you I told you
so Tour Part Two um May May hopefully my
final my final for farewell tour um but
the I I it would be really bad there's
there's there there's a reason that
China or sorry there's a reason that
Taiwan is so strategically valuable to
the US I mean what an incredible move
for them to to just think about how
crazy it is that they picked basically
the only thing on the entire planet
Earth where a country of their size
could become so relevant that all
Western powers are willing to go
toe-to-toe with their largest trade
partner and their largest strategic
adversary just to protect a little
island on the other side of the world
like what if they had gotten into cars
there's no way we would care if they had
become the the the world's best Farmers
no way we would care the only other one
I've heard is like maybe if they'd
become like the Hollywood of Asia like
if if if like there was tons of music
and and movies coming out of there we
all just loved them so much that we
couldn't bear the thought of losing them
all um but they they no nobody's
nobody's pulled that off so they but you
they managed to own in on high-end
semiconductors and build their economy
around them and make themselves so
strategically relevant to the rest of
the world um I I think that right now we
would be devastating I think the
estimates are something like a 20
trillion blow to our GDP and the reason
it's a fixed number and not per year is
because it we we would rebuild those
capabilities over time in Japan and
Korea and in the US but it's something
like a 20 trillion dollar blow to our
economy uh if we lose access to those
semiconductors and that's just that
that's just Unthinkable uh there's an
interesting Dynamic that's going on
right now there though where I I I I
haven't talked this about this a lot
publicly but I I I do worry a little bit
for Taiwan that as the Us and other
countries see that 20 trillion threat
and then diversify away from Taiwan that
in 10 years you end up in a world where
we like Taiwan and we love that they're
a democracy uh and we we want to help
them out in an abstract way but we can't
justify it because we've managed to wean
ourselves off of semiconductors and then
you just see Taiwan fall and so there's
this interesting tension where you know
X is saying he wants to invade in the
next few years more or less I'm actually
wondering if that could actually be the
the the the net better outcome is to
have this fight while we're dependent on
Taiwan rather than to have politically
the US decide that it's not going to
stand up for Taiwan maybe even not going
to deter an invasion uh because we we we
we we want to keep the Chinese the
Chinese spice flowing uh I I I I say
what we really need to do is get away
from needing the Chinese spice more than
we need to get away from from needing
the Taiwanese spice that that that's how
we'll be strategically independent if Xi
Jinping does make a move on Taiwan in
the short term which he's kind of
signaled he might do right and obviously
China China's raw production capacity
completely outstrip the US is right now
do you think that there's any realistic
chance of the us being able to win a
conflict like that uh right right now
yes only because the reality is you go
to war with the tools you have not the
tools you're you're research and
developing right now the US military is
not that dependent on long-term supply
of advanced semiconductors that are born
of Taiwan like we they've we we would be
very bad for the long-term development
of weapon systems but so much of our war
machine is Legacy leg it's Legacy
Industrial Warfare equipment and that's
if if China were to invade today that's
what it would be fought with and then
could we get a bunch of new computers no
but we've got a lot of computers like
we've got enough to take us through
let's say 3we campaign uh and not have
any problems probably enough to make it
through a three-year campaign if we
start you know in the same way we used
to russle up uh steel pots from people
in World War II uh we could probably
start wrestling up people's old old old
uh Old Dell laptops um and can keep
ourselves going a little bit longer on
on on a lot of things uh and there's
actually some interesting I've seen some
interesting uh interesting uh proposals
to use large scale consumer electronics
as as backb phones for things like
flight computers and data processing
nodes like you remember when people were
making supercomputer clusters out of
PlayStation 3s there's people in the
military who are looking at how would
you take every PlayStation and every
Xbox in America that already exists here
and uh and use them to to kind of be the
be the flexible computational back stop
of new capabilities developed over a
multi-year period in a war with with
with China so we we've actually got a
few wacky backup plans um but I I I
think it wouldn't impact things all that
much
immediately you one one of the things
about in our world at least in the in
the tech sector and specifically sort of
within sort of these new next generation
of sort of Defense tech companies is you
get to have these kind of fun
conversations about geopolitics and and
assortment of issues the other thing
that's also fun with these is you get to
bit put a bit more of your uh your
futurist hat on um so the inner Kevin
Kelly and Ray kwell in you is sometimes
enjoys his conversations uh specifically
Palmer want to end with something fun
where you you and you and I have had fun
conversations about some of the Next
Generation sort of Defense capabilities
you'd like to see whether it's rods of
God or hypersonics which Delan obviously
has has a view on I'd be curious um and
maybe it's rods of God but are there any
sort of Next Generation defense
capabilities that you would sort of like
to see um whether it's anal working on
directly or this is like down the road
it'd be great if we could as a country
build these
capabilities oh man I mean there's a lot
of things honestly a lot of the coolest
things I can't talk about because they
rely on technologies that I'm only aware
of now and I can't publicly disclose
but like running down the list of some
cool things um I think one thing that
would be very cool for the United States
and actually very strategically
important is is as a very boring thing
computers that are made in America that
would be a huge one just it's just like
laptop and desktop and server computers
that are made entirely in America so
that we are not totally beholden to
everybody now that's not to say they'll
be the cheapest ones or the best ones
but to have any capability whatsoever is
light years ahead of the current zero um
that that that that's a that's a big one
that's that's boring but I think
actually very very futurist you know
that the US would be able to make such a
thing totally domestically uh very it's
very very very very very retr futurist
you know looking back to the time when
we could do those things um and do all
up integrated products that were not
kind of globalized uh to to a high level
of abstraction another one would be um
you know rods from God I think orbital
weapons are are huge huge interesting
area um I think another really
interesting area is actually the
underground domain so people talk about
different domains in Warfare you know
air land sea uh space subc uh now people
are saying cyberspace is a new domain
nobody talks about the underground
domain there's it's because there's
nothing that operates underground like
at all back during the Cold War the
Soviet Union and the United States both
performed Research into what were called
subterrain they're submarines but
underground that that's what inspired
the movie The Core uh which you may have
seen um that that like that whole
nuclear powered you know Earth melter
Digger mole train that that was a real
US military program that was not that
was just a crazy thing for that one
movie um and the numbers thing stopped
pal I mean if you look at obviously the
quality of of sci-fi that's come out as
well has dropped the same time projects
well one of that is is just the sad
refrain that that ended so many cool
things you can't do nuclear anymore um
just nukes are out of F you can't do
nuclear Ram jet powered space Fighters
you can't do you you can't do nuclear uh
Highway excavation through mountains you
can't do nuclear creation of new Inland
Seas it's just you all of our civil
Atomic projects were were were cancelled
all of our uh almost all of our new
military applications were cancelled
we're still using basically the same
reactor technology and nuclear uh Naval
vessels that was used 50 60 70 years ago
um and our nuclear stockpile hasn't even
been tested since then so we're a that's
not true the last the last detonation
was 2 months after I was born in 1992 um
but you you you you my point it's been
it's been a long time these systems were
all nuclear powered it didn't work you
can't build a manned subterrain uh
without it being nuclear that it's just
it the it just doesn't work on the
number side I actually think that
autonomy is going to unlock the
underground domain as a new war fighting
domain because also in the past you
can't communicate with things
underground very effectively right it's
very hard to send radio signals through
the Earth especially to deep depths uh
but it's also the ultimate place to hide
I mean the sea is becoming ever more
transparent as we get better sensors
that can see submarines in the sea and I
won't talk about the particular
Technologies but people who who who who
read even the open source literature out
there it's it's just becoming easier to
find these things but under underground
I mean it's completely unexplored
finding finding mobile targets small
targets get deep underground that our
density matched with the surrounding
terrain nobody has any idea how to find
things like that so I think that's my
other prediction very futurist and I'm
I'm I'm I'm doing some some some early
work in that area um and then I think
another area is going to be biologics uh
just and I'm not talking about
biological weapons uh so much I'm
talking about uh using biology as a tool
to solve a lot of military problems
because we have new Advanced
bioengineering capabilities so one of
these examples is ual biological uh
basically ai ai a you can call whatever
you want you know people call it you
know biion neuromorphic Computing but
basically building brains that goes in
machines is going to be a really big
deal uh muscles that go in machines are
going to be a really big deal for
example Building self power Scavenging
robots that can uh you know live off of
grass out in a field you know I me
imagine if you could have imagine if you
could have like radio relays that roam
the planes and just eat grass and that's
how they power themselves and they're
very very low signature they can hide
they can hibernate um there there's
actually a lot of interesting bio
biology derived systems where you can
take that stuff in have bacteria in a
little bioreactor that puts out methane
gas which you then run a fuel cell with
it's really really cool stuff and then
of course the the other big one is you
know you guys are probably familiar with
some of the companies out there doing de
Extinction work um of species and I
think there's a lot of species in the
history of our planet where if we go
back to the future they're going to have
excellent military applications like you
think that Shepherds they weigh 150 lb
are really good canine units well what
how about direwolves I what if you have
600 lb canine units carrying 150 pounds
of armor I mean that that that you're
you're talking about something that
weighs like all up eight times more with
a hundred times more bullet resistance
and that they're extinct now but they
don't have to continue to be and you
could imagine some really interesting
stuff happening on on on on that side of
things so I'm I'm very very excited
about kind of you I don't know if and I
don't that that sounds crazy but I don't
know if you guys know this that the US
military actually already has a lot of
animals working in it you have a lot of
dogs working in the military uh you have
a lot of uh dolphins and seals that are
working in the US Navy um and so it's
it's it's not not that crazy to imagine
that we could be working with the best
species that have ever walked the Earth
rather than and of course we'd customize
them a bit too you know give them some
better endurance give them the ability
to breathe at high altitudes things they
didn't have when they were on the Arctic
tundra but I'm I'm really I'm really
excited about uh you know engineered
biolog for defense applications I
imagine like Golden Compass styled
armored polar bears that like you know
arm the prison for all
the that's actually not even that crazy
like if you're going like imagine
imagine that you are building uh you
know installations up in the Arctic
Circle it makes sense that you would
want to have you probably not polar
bears but uh you know you could imagine
like you're probably going to have want
want to have animals that like imagine
if you could have all of the survival
characteristics of Arctic wolves but
with the obedience and trust and loving
characteristics of domesticated animals
you know of course you can breed things
like this over long periods of time with
different levels of success but what if
you could really get it to be like oh
yeah every every every can9 unit we have
in the in the northern latitudes they
have the characteristics of the
strongest arctic wolf That Ever Walked
the Earth and also they they love to
cuddle and do exactly what I say yeah
know I like the ideation around like new
domains I feel in this like upcoming
let's say you know this will maybe be
the last question that we end on in this
like China Taiwan situation you know I I
assume maybe biological and you know
underground probably won't quite make
their way in this Warfare but it does
feel like this upcoming situation is
probably the first time where like the
space domain is like truly a domain in
Warfare where obviously like we've done
like spy satellites even since like you
know uh the you know super early days
but it's never necessarily been a you
know plane of active activity versus you
know obviously you know space force and
Air Force are constantly talking about
like you know okay how do we operate in
a GPS Deni environment how do we make it
so that our GPS satellites are actually
more resilient how do we actually start
to have you know more you know active
movement in some of our Leos byat
satellites I guess what do you think are
some of the let's say you know sort of
nearest term you know you
know military avenues for the
militarization you know sort of of you
know space and how that might actually
you know affect terrestrial you know
Warfare in the very near term well
you're looking at it in exactly the
right way and I think like a good
comparison to the space domain in
previous Wars would be the Civil War
where we had air as a domain only in the
sense that we had aerial observation
balloons you it was like okay we can we
can get in the air we can look at stuff
that's literally all we can do with the
air there's no there's no air battles
there's no you there's there's no force
on Force conflict um it was just a
one-way reconnaissance thing and now
we're moving into where it is a domain
you're right we're going to have active
action back and forth you're going to
things maneuvering in space doing things
in space I think probably one of the
biggest mov moves that the US could make
would be to build a very large defensive
constellation the idea being the same
way that we have ships that Patrol the
high seas and Protect free trade that we
say you know we're going to build a
fleet of satellites that's job it is to
protect critical communication
satellites to protect critical uh
navigation satellites to protect yes of
course critical National Security
reconnaissance assets but I think I I I
would actually love to see it framed as
this is the like I I want to see I want
to see a space force Navy that patrols
the high seas of space to ensure freedom
of communication freedom of movement and
freedom of operation in in space and I
think that that's something that we
could justify pretty easily and it gets
around a lot of the weaponization of
space concerns if you build certain
types of effor systems and of course
like one thing I would do which this is
a little counterintuitive from a
military perspective I would actually
probably explicitly put large inherently
uh like inherent to the design radar
reflecting features on it so that
they're very obvious where they are I
wouldn't be building stealth defensive
satellites I'd say hey look like we're
very clearly not trying to make things
that can go roam out of their orbit and
then come over to your thing and you
know slice it up we're going to build
things where you know exactly where they
are you know exactly what they can do
and they're going to have a strong
deterrent effect where you are not going
to come and try and tamper with or
destroy our satellites I think that
would be a really great move for the US
that would bolster every other type of
space application you talked because if
we can't defend these assets they're so
expensive still I know they're getting
cheaper and you you're of course one of
the people working on making that stuff
making that stuff happen but as of right
now the the big assets are too expensive
to uh double down on and launch hundreds
of billions of dollars of them at this
level of Defense it would be like if we
parked thousands of f-35s uh like in
Compton and we're just like hey we just
got they parked here we have literally
nobody watching them and you know every
every 90 minutes we lose contact with
the completely anyway I hope nobody does
anything to these like that that's the
level of of craziness we're in right now
with our with our with our with our with
our multi hundred billion dollar Fleet
of assets and and maybe in theory we
could call this constellation of
satellites that are watching over
everyone the the space force Guardians
perhaps see I like I think that'd be
great although you know they're calling
the people the Guardians so I think we
probably can't do that um I don't know
like I I've always I've always been more
a fan of space force as a Navy construct
than space force and I I say this not in
I'm not talking politically in real
Earth I'm talking about fictionally I in
my science fiction I prefer space force
to be a naval operation than an Air
Force operation it seems like it's not
trending that way it seems like it's
trending more toward being a being being
an air thing but uh you know what are
you going to do they you can't you don't
always get the future you
want that's true what would you call it
oh man I mean you know I actually you
know I I like the idea more of the
constellation being called Guardians and
maybe they find some new name for the uh
for what they call the you know the
people let's Rebrand that but were that
possible I think I I think yeah they've
made their announcement that's it the
the only thing that I think we might get
on space force is you know right now
they're using the standard uniforms
because you need to be able to justify
why you need a new one before you it's a
regulation thing uh I think they do need
to get some new uniforms uh that that
that nobody has anything else that's
even a little bit like I don't know
about the one people talk about which is
black with little white stars all over
it that probably looks too much like
like like like a like a nighttime onesie
yeah exactly you know pajamas probably
can't do that uh but I don't know some
someone C we could also just copy Star
Trek um I would really like that too
because all of the Communists should be
really angry about that because they say
no Star Trek is about is about socialism
and post scarcity they're nothing like
the United States you're ruining it uh
so I that actually also is something I
would like I I would like that it would
uh be like no no we're just we're just
taking Star Trek it's ours now I mean it
was ours given that we produced it and
shot it all so it should be ours that's
right that's
right well we could do this conversation
all day there's certainly a lot more to
unpack but we'll just have to have you
back on and hopefully not on your second
I Told You So to to thank everyone the
founder of andreil Palmer thanks for
joining us and thanks for listeners for
joining the discussion thanks everyone
thanks
[Music]
Upstream with Eric torberg is a show
from turpentine the podcast Network
behind Moment of Zen and cognitive
Revolution if you like the episode
please leave a review in the Apple
[Music]
Store hey everyone Eric here at
turpentine we're building the First
Media outlet for tech people by tech
people we're the network behind the show
you're listening to right now we have a
slate of hit shows across a r range of
topics in industries from our Ai and
investing cluster of podcasts to shows
that drive the conversation in Tech with
the most interesting thinkers Founders
investors and influencers like econ 102
with Noah Smith we're launching new
shows every week and we're looking for
industry leading sponsors if you think
that might be you and your company email
me at Eric turpentine doco that's e i k
at turpentine doco and let's partner
together
[Music]
m